hi there in this video I'm going to show
you a great exercise for strengthening
your inner thigh your adductors so that
you can get the hips to release and
provide space movement in the in the
sacroiliac and lower back area so if
you're experiencing jamming in that area
or if experiencing a lot of low back
pain and your spine feels flat on the
lower back
this is a great exercise for you okay so
I'm going to start out with the yoga
brick you could use a lot of different
things for this a book but a yoga brick
is really the easiest thing to use and
this is something that you can either
order from me off of my website or you
can go to a local yoga studio Whole
Foods
a lot of different places have yoga
breaks now this is a foam yoga brick I
prefer wooden ones but this is what I
have right now so I'm going to use it
it's a hard foam one though so in this
case you'll see why either one will work
I like the wood because it provides more
feedback but this will work as well so
I'm going to step my feet about hip
width distance apart I'm going to place
the brick just above the knee okay so
just above the knee into the flesh of
the inner thigh so I don't want to be at
the knee where there's bone I want to be
just above the bone where the muscle
starts in the leg here right on this
upper leg this inner thigh okay and I'm
going to take the break and I want a
place to like so so not this way you
know not the flat way but this way it's
the longest distance and I'm going to
place you know the narrowest distance
vertically okay now
I'm gonna put my hands on my hips just
for feedback and right now I'm gonna put
them so my elbows are back a little bit
and what I'm gonna do is notice in my
feet if I look at my inner feet they're
parallel they're placed parallel so
their feet are facing directly forward
now I have my hands on my hips my weight
is evenly distributed across about the
bottoms of my feet so I'm not on the
outside of my feet I'm not on the inside
of my feet I'm not on the front of my
feet or the back of my feet or the front
of one foot in the back of another foot
but my feet are evenly my weight is
evenly distributed across the base of
both feet okay this is critical this is
your starting point you've got to have
the feedback of the bottom of your foot
with the ground to make this work
properly barefoot is best or in socks
I'm wearing a Vibram FiveFingers which
is almost barefoot it's flat so it's
very good feedback
I wouldn't recommend doing this with a
shoe on or sports shoe or anything like
that it's just it puts you at an odd
angle flat foot on the floor is the way
to go barefoot it's best so this is held
between my knees here and I'm going to
slowly drop down so I'm going to bend my
knees forward and drop my buttocks down
towards the floor now as I do that I'm
going to pay attention to whether my
torque to one side or another and if I
do to the extent that I do because I
will everybody's gonna torque slightly
I'm gonna correct that torque evenly
balance the weight across the base of my
feet feel into my pelvis look at my
knees and see that they're both facing
forward that one isn't more forward or
one isn't closer to the center than the
other is my weight dropping vertically
down my hips have to accommodate this so
I may have to release in my hip here
somewhere and then I just press into the
floor evenly and stand up now when I
stand up and I get to the top here my
knees are still a little bit bent but
I'm gonna go ahead and straighten my
knees which pushes my legs together it
pushes this brick into my adductor the
inner thigh adductor muscles and it
stimulates them quite a bit it can be a
little tender in there so go ahead and
squish them down you want your feet to
be flat they'll tend to be on the
outside of your feet push them down flat
that'll push the brick together more and
then do it again
this is about quality movement so you
want to really look and pay attention if
you have a mirror it's even better and
then come on back up press your feet
into the floor back down a set of three
is a great way to start you're not
looking to do this it's an exercise this
is more of a movement evaluation on your
part and learning to move differently
rather than thinking of this as an
exercise for strengthening purpose is
like a Calif Inuk this is not that great
for opening the hips providing mobility
in the lower back and also stability and
transference of the force that's
traveling through your legs holding your
body up getting it to travel through
your pelvis and actually support your
torso supporting your lower back and
such so that your back and your torso
and trunk muscles that don't have to do
that this is a great exercise for that
enjoy and give me your feedback